Q1. What is a database? Differentiate between SQL and NoSQL databases.
A database is an organized collection of structured information, or data, typically stored electronically in a computer system.
SQL databases are primarily called as Relational Databases (RDBMS); whereas NoSQL database are primarily called as non-relational or distributed database
SQL databases have fixed or static or predefined schema.	NoSQL databases have dynamic schema.
SQL databases display data in form of tables so it is known as table-based database.NoSQL databases display data as collection of key-value pair, documents, graph databases or wide-column stores.

Q2. What is DDL? Explain why CREATE, DROP, ALTER, and TRUNCATE are used with an example.
Data Definition Language (DDL) is a subset of SQL. It is a language for describing data and its relationships in a database.
CREATE TABLE command creates a new table in the database 
CREATE TABLE Persons (
    PersonID int,
    LastName varchar(255),
    FirstName varchar(255),
    Address varchar(255),
    City varchar(255)
);

The ALTER TABLE command adds, deletes, or modifies columns in a table.
ALTER TABLE Customers
ADD Email varchar(255);

The DROP TABLE command deletes a table in the database.
DROP TABLE Shippers;

TRUNCATE TABLE command deletes the data inside a table, but not the table itself.
TRUNCATE TABLE Categories;

Q3. What is DML? Explain INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE with an example.
A DML (data manipulation language) refers to a computer programming language that allows you to add (insert), delete (delete), and alter (update) data in a database.

INSERT is data manipulation command in Structured Query Language, which allows users to insert data in database tables.
INSERT INTO Student (Stu_id, Stu_Name, Stu_Marks, Stu_Age) VALUES (104, Anmol, 89, 19);  

UPDATE which allows users to update or modify the existing data in database tables.
UPDATE Product SET Product_Price = 80 WHERE Product_Id = 'P102' ;  

DELETE is a DML command which allows SQL users to remove single or multiple existing records from the database tables.
DELETE FROM Product WHERE Product_Id = 'P202' ;  

Q4. What is DQL? Explain SELECT with an example.
Data Query Languages, are computer languages that are used to make various queries in information systems and databases.

An SQL SELECT statement retrieves records from a database table according to clauses (for example, FROM and WHERE ) that specify criteria. 

The syntax is: SELECT column1, column2 FROM table1, table2 WHERE column2='value';


Q5. Explain Primary Key and Foreign Key.
A primary key is used to ensure that data in the specific column is unique. A column cannot have NULL values. It is either an existing table column or a column that is specifically generated by the database according to a defined sequence. 

A foreign key is a column or group of columns in a relational database table that provides a link between data in two tables. It is a column (or columns) that references a column (most often the primary key) of another table. 


Q6. Write a python code to connect MySQL to python. Explain the cursor() and execute() method.
import mysql.connector

config = {
  'user': 'your_username',
  'password': 'your_password',
  'host': 'localhost',
}

mydb = mysql.connector.connect(**config)

cursor = mydb.cursor()

query = "SELECT * FROM your_table"
cursor.execute(query)

for row in cursor:
  print(row)

cursor.close()
mydb.close()

The cursor method allows us to iterate through our database using a cursor, which will only execute a single query. While processing large amounts of data, the cursor method may be used to reduce your memory usage greatly.

Python's built-in exec() function allows you to execute arbitrary Python code from a string or compiled code input.

Q7. Give the order of execution of SQL clauses in an SQL query.

1. FROM/JOIN: The FROM and/or JOIN clauses are executed first to determine the data of interest.

2. WHERE: The WHERE clause is executed to filter out records that do not meet the constraints.

3. GROUP BY: The GROUP BY clause is executed to group the data based on the values in one or more columns.

4. HAVING: The HAVING clause is executed to remove the created grouped records that don’t meet the constraints.

5. SELECT: The SELECT clause is executed to derive all desired columns and expressions.

6. ORDER BY: The ORDER BY clause is executed to sort the derived values in ascending or descending order.

7. LIMIT/OFFSET: Finally, the LIMIT and/or OFFSET clauses are executed to keep or skip a specified number of rows.


